.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a bug report to help us improve
title: ""
labels: "bug"
assignees: ""
---

<!-- 
Thank you for reporting an issue.

Please fill in as much of the template below as you're able. Feel free to delete any section you want to skip. 
-->

### Search terms you've used
<!-- What search terms have you used to check whether this bug was already reported? -->

### Bug description
<!-- A short description of what the problem is. -->

### To Reproduce
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 

### Expected result
<!-- A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen -->

### Actual result
<!-- A description of what actually happened -->

### Environment
Please run

  npx envinfo --system --npmPackages --binaries --npmGlobalPackages --browsers

in your project folder and paste the output here:

```
$ npx envinfo --system --npmPackages --binaries --npmGlobalPackages --browsers
```

## Additional information
<!-- Add any other relevant information that might be useful to understand and find a solution to the problem -->

Commit message:

Added package entry in issue template
Since the repository hosts multiple packages, and the issue tracker is
at the repo level, issues would be more helpful if they specified which
package exactly is impacted by a bug.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a bug report to help us improve
title: ""
labels: "bug"
assignees: ""
---

<!-- 
Thank you for reporting an issue.

Please fill in as much of the template below as you're able. Feel free to delete any section you want to skip. 
-->

### Search terms you've used
<!-- What search terms have you used to check whether this bug was already reported? -->

### Impacted package

What package(s) of the monorepo is impacted by the bug ?

- [ ] solid-client-authn-browser
- [ ] solid-client-authn-node
- [ ] solid-client-authn-core
- [ ] oidc-client-ext
- [ ] Other (please specify): ...

### Bug description
<!-- A short description of what the problem is. -->

### To Reproduce
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 

### Expected result
<!-- A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen -->

### Actual result
<!-- A description of what actually happened -->

### Environment
Please run

  npx envinfo --system --npmPackages --binaries --npmGlobalPackages --browsers

in your project folder and paste the output here:

```
$ npx envinfo --system --npmPackages --binaries --npmGlobalPackages --browsers
```

## Additional information
<!-- Add any other relevant information that might be useful to understand and find a solution to the problem -->
