.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md, before:

---
name: Feature request
about: Suggest an idea for a new feature
title: ""
labels: "enhancement"
assignees: ""
---

<!-- 
Thank you for reporting an issue.

Please fill in as much of the template below as you're able. Feel free to delete any section you don't think applies, but be aware that the more comprehensive your description, the easier it is to take it into account. 
-->

### Search terms you've used
<!-- What search terms have you used to check whether this feature has been requested before? -->

### Impacted package

What package(s) of the monorepo would implement the feature ?

- [ ] solid-client-authn-browser
- [ ] solid-client-authn-node
- [ ] solid-client-authn-core
- [ ] oidc-client-ext
- [ ] Other (please specify): ...

### Feature suggestion

<!-- A summary of what you'd like to see added or changed -->

### Expected functionality/enhancement

<!-- How would you like the new feature work -->

### Actual functionality/enhancement

<!-- Explain the difference from current behavior -->

### Use Cases

<!--
What do you want to use this for?
What shortcomings exist with current approaches?
-->

### Additional information
<!-- Add any other context or screenshots about the feature request here. -->

Commit message:

Change the question to ask about environment
Based on a very good point in the review comments, instead of asking
about the package impacted by the reported bug, we now ask the
environment in which the bug is observed. That will give us the same
information, but it's more user friendly.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md, after:

---
name: Feature request
about: Suggest an idea for a new feature
title: ""
labels: "enhancement"
assignees: ""
---

<!-- 
Thank you for reporting an issue.

Please fill in as much of the template below as you're able. Feel free to delete any section you don't think applies, but be aware that the more comprehensive your description, the easier it is to take it into account. 
-->

### Search terms you've used
<!-- What search terms have you used to check whether this feature has been requested before? -->

### Impacted environment

In which environment would the proposed feature apply ?

- [ ] The browser
- [ ] Node.js
- [ ] Other (please specify): ...
- [ ] I'm not sure.


### Feature suggestion

<!-- A summary of what you'd like to see added or changed -->

### Expected functionality/enhancement

<!-- How would you like the new feature work -->

### Actual functionality/enhancement

<!-- Explain the difference from current behavior -->

### Use Cases

<!--
What do you want to use this for?
What shortcomings exist with current approaches?
-->

### Additional information
<!-- Add any other context or screenshots about the feature request here. -->
